{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f5\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f6\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f9\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 FreeSans;}{\f10\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f11\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 FreeSans;}{\f12\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 FreeSans;}{\f13\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\*\cs15\snext15 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs16\snext16\loch\f5 ListLabel 1;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext18\ql\nowidctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af9\langfe1033\dbch\af11\afs28\alang1025\loch\f6\fs28\lang1033 Heading;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sl288\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe1033\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1025\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 Text Body;}
{\s19\sbasedon18\snext19\sl288\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af9\langfe1033\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 List;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\ql\nowidctlpar\sb120\sa120\noline\ltrpar\cf1\i\kerning1\dbch\af9\langfe2052\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1081\ai\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 Caption;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\ql\nowidctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\noline\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af9\langfe1033\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 Index;}
{\s22\snext22\ql\nowidctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb120\sa120\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\i\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe1033\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1025\ai\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 caption;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2014\mo10\dy28\hr17\min38}{\revtim\yr2014\mo11\dy25\hr19\min27}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern67241730}}\deftab709\deftab709
\viewscale150
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\qc\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\b\dbch\af8\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Build to Question}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
\tab }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
\tab Virtual reality systems offer a very realistic and immersive experience; however most existing systems, such as the Oculus Rift, use goggles or other wearables. }{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
While these systems offer many affordances for learning, they have certain drawbacks, such as the need for wearable hardware, that limit its potential benefits.}{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
 }{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Some museums have built interactive exhibits that offer some of the same affordances with fewer drawbacks. For instance, the Durham Museum of Life and Science has an exhibit called Soundspace, which offers interactive art and sounds based on one's movement. While these kinds of exhibits provide a touchless, immersive experience, they too have limitations. Although }{\cf1\i\dbch\af8\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Soundspace }{\cf1\i0\dbch\af8\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
is not specifically for assisting those with disabilities, its}{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
 limitations are analogous to some of the general obstacles to developing effective assistive technology delineated by researchers Mull, et al. The obstacles }{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
include the generally high cost and limited availability of assistive technology, and the amount of training needed to operate the technology [11].}{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
 Soundspace is a permanent installation, meaning one must purchase admission to the museum in order to enjoy the technology, limiting its accessibility. Furthermore, the exhibit is a single-purpose tool operated by the museum's trained employees. It is not customizable or flexible. In order to build a tool that includes the advantages of Soundspace without its limitations of cost, usability, portability, and flexibility, existing technologies will be re-purposed and adapted to build interactive spaces. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\dbch\af7\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
\tab }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa200{\cf1\b\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
Microsoft Kinect and Leap Motion}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa200{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
One such device that has extensive potential as a learning and teaching tool is the Microsoft Kinect, a three-dimensional motion tracking device originally developed for gaming purposes.  The Kinect is portable, relatively inexpensive (approximately 100 USD) and is capable of recognizing voice commands and gestures. Software can be developed to repurpose the Kinect for a multitude of applications. One such application, called WinandI, allows users to use the Windows 7 operating system through gestures. As Hsu asserts, the ability of the Kinect to track movements and gestures within four meters of the device means that much of the functionality of IWB's can be replicated with the Kinect [6].  The Kinect also has vast potential as a virtual reality tool. }{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
A team of researchers at Carnegie Mellon, Team Aether, have developed a system using the Kinect and a Raspberry Pi computer with a projector to project images on a stream of compressed air.  One can manipulate the projected objects, creating a hologram-like effect [3]. Team Aether's system allows one to interact with virtual objects in a more natural way due to the fact that the Kinect tracks body movements rather than wearables.  Also, Canton et al. assert that in general, using one's body instead of an external device to control an interactive system can improve its use [2]. Natural body movements allow for a more realistic learning scenario, which is very important for learners with moderate to severe intellectual disabilities. Although skills learned by such individuals \uc2 \u8220\'81\'67do not readily transfer across settings\u8221\'81\'68 [10],\uc1 }{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
 \uc2 \u8220\'81\'67the more similar the simulation to the target setting, the greater the likelihood that transfer will occur\u8221\'81\'68 [10]. \uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa200{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
That the Kinect can be used without having to wear any gloves, goggles, or other wearables is especially favorable in developing an application for children.  One of the other obstacles specified by Mull, et al. is the abandonment of the technology by the user. In the context of this project, whose users will primarily be children with sensory-integration problems, wearables may feel invasive or irritating. The touchless nature of interactions using the Kinect also fosters a higher degree of reality of simulated experiences, asserts Hsu [6]. The Kinect offers many advantages as well as potential solutions to the obstacles delineated by Mull, et al. However, because it is a relatively new technology, \uc2 \u8220\'81\'67customized software to facilitate classroom interactions and to create Kinect-enabled contents seems to be missing in the picture of current technology integration,\u8221\'81\'68 as Hsu points out [6].\uc1 }{\cf1\b\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa200{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
\tab The Leap Motion is another piece of technology that can potentially overcome the aforementioned obstacles, and it also has not been fully researched in the context of assistive technology. It is an even more portable, cheaper motion detector, costing only about 80 USD. Whereas the Kinect tracks one\uc2 \u8217\'81\'66s entire body, the Leap tracks only one\u8217\'81\'66s hands. There exist a multitude of applications that range from educational to artistic. One application, \uc1 }{\cf1\i\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
Form and Function}{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
, allows one to manipulate and study structures within the human body. Another application, }{\cf1\i\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
Sculpting, }{\cf1\i0\dbch\af8\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
allows one to make three-dimensional virtual sculptures using only one's hands}{\cf1\i\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
. }{\cf1\dbch\af8\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang9\loch\f4
The Leap has an existing base of software and an extremely flexible software development kit; however, all of the existing applications for the Leap are gaming related and require the use of a computer screen. The Leap's small size and cost makes it a perfect candidate to be repurposed for our framework. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\b\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Specific Goals:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
\tab All previous implementations of virtual reality and interactive spaces, including }{\cf1\i\dbch\af10\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Soundspace,}{\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
 involve the use of a screen or goggles. A higher degree of immersion could be achieved if children could interact with objects in a room and receive feedback directly from that room, rather than through a computer monitor. We will repurpose the Kinect and Leap, which have virtually no screenless applications, to function as a part of an interactive room without an electronic display. Instead, feedback will be supplied through programmable lights and sounds.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi709{\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
The software framework must be flexible. This means that it can be applied to a wide range of spaces. The framework should also have a variety of programs to choose from. An example of one such program would involve pointing at various non-computerized objects, and receiving feedback in the form of lights and sounds. To be more specific, imagine a room in which one can point at an array of ordinary stuffed animals and hear the sound made by that animal. Another component of the framework will involve basic mood detection. For instance, if a child using the system becomes too energetic, the lights could dim or change to a more calming color.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi709{\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
The framework must be accessible. This requires that the entire application be inexpensive relative to comparable interactive spaces. Also, if possible, the framework will be compatible across different platforms, such as Windows, Mac, and Linux. Furthermore, the entire system should be portable so that a parent or teacher can set up an interactive space in any reasonably sized room. Finally, the application must be easy to use by the average layperson. The application must be controlled by an intuitive user interface.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi709{\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Lastly, and most importantly, the framework must be effective. Primarily, a sensory-seeking child should enjoy using the interactive space created by the framework. Also, the framework should promote areas of the child\uc2 \u8217\'81\'66s cognition, including memory and planning, attention, sensory integration, and emotional regulation.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi709\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li720\ri0\lin720\rin0\fi0\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Challenges:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\cf1\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
\tab There will undoubtedly be challenges to achieving these goals.  First and foremost, The Kinect and Leap are imperfect sensors. This means our framework must be able to operate smoothly despite unexpected or incorrect data values from events. This challenge is compounded by the fact that children tend to be spontaneous, and their actions are not always predictable. Having children as the main users of the application also presents the challenge of hiding the hardware in the space so that it is protected from and not distracting to the children. The effectiveness of the framework would be undermined if kids were to start playing with (and potentially breaking) the sensors themselves rather than the space.  Another factor contributing to this obstacle is the fact that not all rooms are identical.  Our framework must be flexible enough to be able to handle spaces that vary widely.  Furthermore, not all kids are identical. Children all play differently and find interest in different things. The application must be effective for all kinds of sensory-seeking children. }{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Determining the effectiveness of the framework requires consulting the knowledge of an expert in special education.}{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
 }{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Also,}{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
 in order to reduce the amount of training needed to set up and operate the system, }{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
we will need to consult an expert in human-computer interaction to create}{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
 a user interface that }{\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
is intuitive so as to be easily used by most. Lastly, determining and responding to one's mood using basic motion detection is an unsolved problem in computing sciences. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li720\ri0\lin720\rin0\fi0\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\b\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Primary Question:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af13\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\dbch\af10\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f4
Is it possible to build a software framework using existing motion detection hardware in order to create effective, inexpensive, portable, easy to use interactive spaces?}
\par }