{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Calibri;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Droid Sans;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 FreeSans;}{\f8\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 FreeSans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af8 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af8\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af8 Index;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern67241475}}\deftab720
\viewscale150
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Assistive Technology}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
//}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Make sure to say assistive tech is subfield of cs which has produced thosre tools.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Assistive technology is a class of tools and applications whose objective is to help those with disabilities, whether developmental, cognitive, social or emotional. Assistive technology can have many applications: mobility, health care, communication, visual/auditory/motor }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
assistance}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
, accessibility, and cognition. Eye-glasses, wheelchairs, and hearing-aids are all familiar examples of relatively low-tech tools that have an immense impact on users' lives. Developments in computer science have yielded tools that can assist cognition and communication in groundbreaking ways. Some aspects of cognition that can be supported or augmented by technology include attention, memory and planning, sensory integration, and emotional regulation.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
//}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Use bullets instead of comma separated list}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
//}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Cognitive assistive tech -> interactive learning tools}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Interactivity}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
According to the Division for Early Childhood's best practices in special education, interactivity is immensely important to a child's social, emotional, and cognitive development. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Computer-based tools are the perfect media for interactive lessons because their applications are limited only by the available software.  According to the widely accepted developmental theory of Constructivism, developed by Jean Piaget, children construct a framework of meaning around experiences.  When they experience something new, that experience is either assimilated if it fits with their current framework, or accomodated if that experience leads to the modification of that framework.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
Researchers Kennewell et al. pointed out the distinction between surface interactivity, which involves the student merely conveying knowledge, and deep interactivity, which entails the student assessing and extending knowledge in a more autonomous manner. They also delineated four principles of interactive lessons: reciprocal opportunities for talk, appropriate guidance and modeling (also known as scaffolding), environments which are conducive to student participation, and an increase in student autonomy. In regard to the traditional lecture-style teaching method, there is no interactivity, only individual internal mental activity. In another traditional structure of teaching, initiation-response-feedback (IRF), the teacher may show an example or demonstration, prompt the learners for a response, and then give feedback on that response. One can see how this technique causes students to interact with the material only on a surface level by conveying the knowledge they believe to be the appropriate response to the teacher's prompt. While this involves some interactivity, the students still have very little control over their own learning. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
State of the Art}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang9\loch\f5
If you have ever walked through the doors of a modern supermarket in America, then you have benefited from one of the many applications of motion detection technology. Motion detection at its most basic level has existed since Heinrich Hertz invented Radar. In that time, this technology has been advanced to a point such that complex human features, gestures, and point of visual focus can be tracked to great detail. Researchers Lahiri et al. developed a virtual-reality-based system for tracking eye movements in real-time in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in order to augment intervention strategies and promote social interaction (Lahiri p#). The authors pointed out that children with autism tend to \uc2 \u8220\'81\'67fixate less towards human faces and more towards other objects within visual stimulus,\u8221\'81\'68 which is correlated to the tendency of autistic children to miss social cues from faces (Lahiri p#). One limitation of their research stems from their use of goggles to track visual gaze; as pointed out by Chaudhary et al., practical use is greatly limited due to the fact that one must wear the technology. One of the obstacles to assistive technology, as delineated by researchers Alnahdi et al., is the abandonment of the technology by the user (Alnahdi p#). Using touch-less gesture recognition technology through motion detection allows one to interact with a system in a natural, intuitive way without having to wear any special equipment. This is one advantage afforded by the Microsoft Kinect, a three-dimensional body-tracking system, which was found to be a promising tool for interactive classroom learning because it has the potential to operate on the three primary modes of learning: visual, auditory, and kinesthetic. Hsu also points out that \u8220\'81\'67Customized software to facilitate classroom interactions and to create Kinect-enabled contents seems to be missing in the picture of current technology integration\u8221\'81\'68 (p#).\uc1 }
\par }